t all the departments of the household are in proper working order,
will have many important matters claiming her attention. She will,
possibly, have to give the finishing touch to some article of
confectionary, or be occupied with some of the more elaborate processes
of the still-room. There may also be the dessert to arrange, ice-creams
to make; and all these employments call for no ordinary degree of care,
taste, and attention.

    The still-room was formerly much more in vogue than at present;
    for in days of "auld lang syne," the still was in constant
    requisition for the supply of sweet-flavoured waters for the
    purposes of cookery, scents and aromatic substances used in the
    preparation of the toilet, and cordials in cases of accidents
    and illness. There are some establishments, however, in which
    distillation is still carried on, and in these, the still-room
    maid has her old duties to perform. In a general way, however,
    this domestic is immediately concerned with the housekeeper. For
    the latter she lights the fire, dusts her room, prepares the
    breakfast-table, and waits at the different meals taken in the
    housekeeper's room (_see_ 58). A still-room maid may learn a
    very great deal of useful knowledge from her intimate connection
    with the housekeeper, and if she be active and intelligent, may
    soon fit herself for a better position in the household.

60. IN THE EVENING, the housekeeper will often busy herself with the
necessary preparations for the next day's duties. Numberless small, but
still important arrangements, will have to be made, so that everything
may move smoothly. At times, perhaps, attention will have to be paid to
the breaking of lump-sugar, the stoning of raisins, the washing,
cleansing, and drying of currants, &c. The evening, too, is the best
time for setting right her account of the expenditure, and duly writing
a statement of moneys received and paid, and also for making memoranda
of any articles she may require for her storeroom or other departments.

    Periodically, at some convenient time,--for instance, quarterly
    or half-yearly, it is a good plan for the housekeeper to make an
    inventory of everything she has under her care, and compare this
    with the lists of a former period; she will then be able to
    furnish a statement, if necessary, of the articles which, on
    account of time, breakage, loss, or other causes, it has been
    necessary to replace or replenish.

61. IN CONCLUDING THESE REMARKS on the duties of the