=== souls
Karl made no restraint as his body simply twisted with ease in my grip. His steel eyes gazed into mine but there was nothing in them. No life. Just… Nothing. My brown eyes broke away from his eyes to gawk at his forehead. Branded on it was the picture of the sun, the Chantry, the mage's symbol for Tranquil. Words poured out of his mouth but they were still as void of emotion as before. "I was too rebellious. Like you. The Templars knew I had to be… Made an example of."

"No!" I exclaimed. It was the only thing I could utter as I felt tears well up in my eyes and a tingling feeling come about my throat.
=== souls
"Did you hear me Anders? We are to bring you in alive. So they may brand you and parade you about Thedas as an example of the Orders' power." Frustration sets her jaw. Stiffens her spine. "And there's nothing I can do about it. They—" Her voice breaks. A second tear joins the first winding it's own way through the ash that covers her face. "They have my Beth."

"Of course they do." I laugh and it scrapes my throat raw. "And they say we are the evil ones."

Bastards. They found a soft spot and dug in deep. It shouldn't surprise me that they'd turn on one of their own. Not when it could get them a prize such as me.
=== souls
Bulldog looked at the woman, her head was lolled back, he put his head to her mouth again and didn't feel her breathing. He started to tug a glove off to feel for a pulse but realised his fingers would be too numb.

"Chukk, get over here and start doing compressions, she's stopped breathing!" Chukk got down and started doing chest compressions and Bulldog breathed into her mouth every eight seconds. Professor and Skyke kept pressure on the wound and the ogryns stood watching helplessly.

Ten minutes passed before Bulldog said to stop and closed her lifeless eyes. Everyone moved towards the figure they shot except Chukk that stayed kneeling by the woman. Bulldog turned the figure over, it was a man wearing an expensive looking fur coat, the knife still clutched in his hand. It also had a finger hanging off the hilt.
=== souls
"WHAT?" Ernuk roared. "You idiots can stop entire squads of imperials, but you can't stop one lousy Breton?"

"Sire, you have no idea of his power!" the draugr said. "He strides through our most accomplished wights, felling them with lightning spells and strikes from his horrible hammer! The weaker ones, even the moderately weak, are killed in one hit!"

"Impossible!" Ernuk cried, fear beginning to well in his chest. He pushed it down, and shook his head. "Get the deathlords on it! NOW! I won't be defeated by one man!"
=== souls
Sharing a bed with Prince Rhaegar was nothing like Lysa might have expected.

Cat had asked her, in a hushed whisper as she combed her hair the night after the wedding, what it was like to lie with a man, and Lysa had not known what to tell her.
=== wired
"Are you saying that your work is so superior to mine?"

"That wasn't what I'd intended to convey." What he wanted to say was that he wanted to keep looking after the mettool, please, and he hated the idea of lowering a robot's functioning even temporarily because it went against what Albert called his prime directive. He was supposed to help, and so was Dr. Light, and this was wrong somehow. "It would only be a temporary lowering of functionality… that would be a waste of your time?"

"You aren't here to decide how humans should spend their time. Hand over the mettool, Protoman."

At this point, the first law had been invoked. Dr. Light was being scary, it was making Albert worried, it couldn't be good for their blood pressure, and he had to figure out how to fix this and stop hurting and scaring them but he couldn't figure out how.
=== wired
December 25th 2023

I crept back into Liz's home, a few minutes after midnight. I entered the dark bedroom, thinking I'd pulled it off, but there was a tone, and the light lit up. Liz was standing next to the lamp, pink pajamas on, and her arms crossed. "You're late," she said.

"It's a few minutes," I replied, re-checking the time.

"Still late."

"What are you going to do?" I asked. "Kick me out? I technically own the place."

"How did the quest go?"
=== wired
"Welcome back, Idiot. Hmmph." She turned away, but he knew that he caught the traces of a smile on her face.

"So… can I go home now?" Shinji looked to Misato, and she was smiling. She nodded once, and he smiled back. "Great." Giving the guards a slight glare, the young man and his rag-tag group of friends left the detention block. However, it was very apparent to the group that Shinji wasn't acting like himself. His head was held high, his strides were nowhere near as sluggish and tired as they had been. It was as if… something… had happened to the boy in that cell. He almost moved with a grace none had seen from the boy before.
=== wired
Through the alcohol and the lust, he heard his name again.

"James."

Dimly, he realized his name hadn't come out of her mouth in a moan or whimper, but a command. And even as this thought cleared his brain, her voice came again - crisp, like an ice cube crunched in the teeth, "Lie_ten_ant."

He pulled away unsteadily, just an inch, watching her. Her hair was even more mussed and her face was flushed - but stern. And sad. But she looked him right in the eyes as she said, quietly, "We can't do this."
=== wired
I think I was in shock and my brain decided it had enough and I passed out. Sometime later I awoke to these giants talking in some strange language far too fast and muffled for me to even try to comprehend. I froze when I felt someone hand me to another pair of hands and this time the new voice sounded too high for a male and murmured soothing sounds to me. It sounded familiar somehow…

A moment later it clicked and my only thought was,

'So she was the one humming to me when I was…'

And then my brain caught up with me,

'Oh damn, did I was just get birthed!? '
=== anime
Senda isn't sure what compels him to do what he does next. It could be that he feels sorry for Kitamura (dead girlfriend, that would definitely earn Senda a pitydate with the girl at the festival). Maybe it's because Kitamura has been so unexpectedly open tonight.

Or maybe it is the street light flickering on a beautiful boy's face, and the pain that echoes in his voice, and the talent that is carved into muscle and bones.

People may call Senda a delusional, narcissistic fool, but he is the kind of delusional, narcissistic fool who goes for what he wants.

Senda leans over, so that he is hovering over a harshly gasping Kitamura with eyes still covered, and kisses him underneath the watchful stars.
=== anime
"I'm just frustrated that you and Hanji, Mikasa and Armin, all of you...you all worry and fret over me. I'm fine. I can take care of myself." He didn't mean it in a bad way. He truly hated seeing other's worry about him because it meant they weren't focused on themselves. Eren would never let himself live it down if someone was killed out there because they couldn't stop thinking about him. To survive in this world, you had to fight. Fighting meant you had to try. Trying meant you had to care enough about yourself to survive, and surviving meant living.

"Eren, you can't be a one man army forever." Jean interrupted his thoughts. "Sometimes it's okay to rely on others. When you work as a team, you're trusting those around you. That's the best way to show you care out there. And trust me, we all care about you."
=== anime
"What? Break is over? I haven't eat lunch yet!" Mikan whined as she walked with Natsume to the class. As they sit, Narumi waltz in to the class, again.

"Okay, My lovely students~ Now you will read your essay started from…. Koko-kun," Narumi grinned.
=== anime
"Well, I just want to know if you drank enough water or not. Yellow means you need more water. Colorless means you're alright."

"How do you even know this?" Akane asked.

"C'mon, we're martial artists, not aliens. We still need to pee y'know."

Akane gave out a light laugh at that. "Well, if you wanna know then its light yellow," Akane gave the answer.
=== anime
Energy begins radiating out of the sarcophagus as the lid can no longer handle the sheer power as the lid finally exploded. Out steps one of the most powerful beings to walk the earth. The only features you can see clearly are the glowing purple eyes with the rings around the pupils and the dark black chakra enveloping the entire body. Uzumaki Naruto has risen once again.
